
# Circular Economy - Meeting 15/06/2016

## Brainstorming

 * Joris : circ. Economy : linear way of producing os not sustainable (never has been) -> circular way of producing : no more waste products. Industrial ecology field ; but requires system thinking. many ways to introduce complexity.

 * Juste : urban systems etc ; interaction models etc. Scales ? meso-macro.

 * Lorraine : local optimization of the system, dissipation of energy.

 * Marius : circular flows into an ecosystem. Q : how do you define the system ? open/closed.
 -> some papers do already looked at this analogy.

 * Ben : barriers for waste exchanges in real situations. information is required. social trust : economic benefits, etc. what influences choices ?
Dataset : waste, pollution on Europe.

 * Nai : product clusters ? -> linked to the scale : network of exchanges, multi-scale levels. cross-border, information.

 * Jesus : look in the past if existed or not ? Easter island : too groups competing, resources exhaustion.

 * Abigail : place with environmental constraints : no cost to use non-local resources (cf Eskimos : behavior modified, destabilized the whole system).

 * Q : conditions in infrastructure change ? not necessarily.
 * Q : optimal size ? (are there some ecosystems optimal sizes ?)
 * Q : incentives ?

 * Scott : common resources. if it's there and no prices, people will take it : how to govern the commons ? what scaling to govern commons ? good size of communities. at the community level in the network.

 * Mika : is there any difference between circ eco and recycling ? recycle ≠ reuse. recycle imply destruction.
-> Abigail : pb of carbon footprint, some processes are more polluting than throwing away.
Objects that are more convenient to throw away. Google has bought modular phone, modified it. : what is the incentive ?

--> Two questions :
  1) what is an optimal system ? ! objectives.
  2) incentives, barriers etc.

  couple both ?

* goal of a truly circular economy ? -> minimizing the output.

* Lorraine : self-organization of cities. energy : self-organized dissipative structure. Random growth - Gibrat model. cities maximize dissipation. Odum : fourth law of thermo. cities place of social change ; people need to be close to each other. optimal nw ?

* how do we measure ? minimize waste ? size of input/output ?

* link with cities as plans / Abigail project. people have certain plans and goals.
